README.md, before:

Serenity Application Platform
=============================

<img src="https://github.com/volkanceylan/Serenity/blob/master/Tools/Images/serenity-logo-128.png" />

[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/hfs2elisqkmg7fp7?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/volkanceylan/serenity)  [![version](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Serenity.Core.svg?label=version)](http://www.nuget.org/packages/Serenity.Core/)   [![Serenity Slack Status](https://serenityslackinvitation.herokuapp.com/badge.svg?2)](https://serenityslackinvitation.herokuapp.com/)

## What is Serenity Platform

Serenity is an ASP.NET MVC / TypeScript application platform designed to simplify and shorten development of data-centric business applications with a service based architecture.

It aims to make development easier while reducing maintenance costs by avoiding boiler-plate code, reducing the time spent on repetitive tasks and applying best software design practices. 

<img src="https://github.com/volkanceylan/Serene/blob/master/Template/img/SereneAnimation.gif" />

## Documentation and Tutorials

See [Serenity Developer Guide](https://www.gitbook.com/book/volkanceylan/serenity-guide) at https://www.gitbook.com/book/volkanceylan/serenity-guide for documentation, and step by step tutorials.

**Translations of Serenity Developer Guide:**
- [Chinese Simplified (thanks @WuShenghui)](https://www.gitbook.com/book/volkanceylan/serenity-zh-cn)
- [Türkçe Başlangıç Kılavuzu (thanks @ademc)](https://www.gitbook.com/book/ademc/serenity-gelistirici-dokumani)

**Serenity Blog:**
- http://serenity.is/blog/

**Serenity Slack Chat:**
For join https://serenityslackinvitation.herokuapp.com
- http://serenityplatform.slack.com/

## Quick Start with Serene

The easiest and fastest way to get your hands dirty on Serenity is by using a sample application template (Serene) from Visual Studio Gallery at https://visualstudiogallery.msdn.microsoft.com/559ec6fc-feef-4077-b6d5-5a99408a6681

You can also install it directly from Visual Studio, by entering File -> New -> Project -> Online and searching for *SERENE*.

Serene source code is available in its own repository at https://github.com/volkanceylan/serene.

## Installation
 
See [Installation Guide](INSTALL.md) for prerequisites and setup information

## Online Serene Demo

http://serenity.is/demo/

http://serenedemo.azurewebsites.net/ [alternative one from @samdubey]

## Contribute / Spread the Word

You may contribute to the project by opening a pull request, adding documentation, sample source code, asking a question or suggesting an improvement etc. Just open an issue here with relevant links.

Please help spread the word by posting in blogs, forums, social media, starring project in GitHub, or reviewing the Serene extension in [VSGallery](https://visualstudiogallery.msdn.microsoft.com/559ec6fc-feef-4077-b6d5-5a99408a6681/view/Reviews).

## Licence

Serenity is a free and open source project with MIT licence, which permits usage in commercial applications. 

## Donating

If Serenity was helpful to you, please consider donating to keep Serenity alive and moving forward.

http://serenity.is/#Donate

## Commercial Support

Paid support options are available from the author and a team of Serenity professionals. [Contact us](mailto:volkanceylan@gmail.com) for details.

## Video Tutorials (thanks a lot to @samdubey for these contributions)

**Serenity Youtube Channel:** 

https://www.youtube.com/c/SerenityApplicationFramework

**Introduction to Serene:**

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_AqRl_U_gcw

**Setting up Continuous Deployment on Microsoft Azure for Serenity Applications:**

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tcywhS9k9Wc

**Serenity Application Deployment to Microsoft Azure**:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hkU6iVFlWl8

Commit message:

Add information about premium support

README.md, after:

Serenity Application Platform
=============================

<img src="https://github.com/volkanceylan/Serenity/blob/master/Tools/Images/serenity-logo-128.png" />

[![Build status](https://ci.appveyor.com/api/projects/status/hfs2elisqkmg7fp7?svg=true)](https://ci.appveyor.com/project/volkanceylan/serenity)  [![version](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Serenity.Core.svg?label=version)](http://www.nuget.org/packages/Serenity.Core/)   [![Serenity Slack Status](https://serenityslackinvitation.herokuapp.com/badge.svg?2)](https://serenityslackinvitation.herokuapp.com/)

## What is Serenity Platform

Serenity is an ASP.NET MVC / TypeScript application platform designed to simplify and shorten development of data-centric business applications with a service based architecture.

It aims to make development easier while reducing maintenance costs by avoiding boiler-plate code, reducing the time spent on repetitive tasks and applying best software design practices. 

<img src="https://github.com/volkanceylan/Serene/blob/master/Template/img/SereneAnimation.gif" />

## Documentation and Tutorials

See [Serenity Developer Guide](https://www.gitbook.com/book/volkanceylan/serenity-guide) at https://www.gitbook.com/book/volkanceylan/serenity-guide for documentation, and step by step tutorials.

**Translations of Serenity Developer Guide:**
- [Chinese Simplified (thanks @WuShenghui)](https://www.gitbook.com/book/volkanceylan/serenity-zh-cn)
- [Türkçe Başlangıç Kılavuzu (thanks @ademc)](https://www.gitbook.com/book/ademc/serenity-gelistirici-dokumani)

**Serenity Blog:**
- http://serenity.is/blog/

**Serenity Slack Chat:**
For join https://serenityslackinvitation.herokuapp.com
- http://serenityplatform.slack.com/

## Quick Start with Serene

The easiest and fastest way to get your hands dirty on Serenity is by using a sample application template (Serene) from Visual Studio Gallery at https://visualstudiogallery.msdn.microsoft.com/559ec6fc-feef-4077-b6d5-5a99408a6681

You can also install it directly from Visual Studio, by entering File -> New -> Project -> Online and searching for *SERENE*.

Serene source code is available in its own repository at https://github.com/volkanceylan/serene.

## Installation
 
See [Installation Guide](INSTALL.md) for prerequisites and setup information

## Online Serene Demo

http://serenity.is/demo/

http://serenedemo.azurewebsites.net/ [alternative one from @samdubey]

## Contribute / Spread the Word

You may contribute to the project by opening a pull request, adding documentation, sample source code, asking a question or suggesting an improvement etc. Just open an issue here with relevant links.

Please help spread the word by posting in blogs, forums, social media, starring project in GitHub, or reviewing the Serene extension in [VSGallery](https://visualstudiogallery.msdn.microsoft.com/559ec6fc-feef-4077-b6d5-5a99408a6681/view/Reviews).

## Licence

Serenity is a free and open source project with MIT licence, which permits usage in commercial applications. 

## Premium Support

We offer premium support packages at http://serenity.is. They also include *StartSharp* template with advanced samples, features and modules. 

Visit [this blog post](http://serenity.is/blog/2017/08/08/what-is-in-premium) for more information about what is available in premium support and *StartSharp*.

## Commercial Support

Paid support options are available from the author and a team of Serenity professionals. [Contact us](mailto:volkanceylan@gmail.com) for details.

## Donating

If Serenity was helpful to you, please consider donating to keep Serenity alive and moving forward.

http://serenity.is/#Donate
## Video Tutorials (thanks a lot to @samdubey for these contributions)

**Serenity Youtube Channel:** 

https://www.youtube.com/c/SerenityApplicationFramework

**Introduction to Serene:**

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_AqRl_U_gcw

**Setting up Continuous Deployment on Microsoft Azure for Serenity Applications:**

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tcywhS9k9Wc

**Serenity Application Deployment to Microsoft Azure**:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hkU6iVFlWl8
